surrounding tribes, subduing them and forcing them to pay tribute to the
from a friendless foundling, feeble and
straining at anchor and sheeted with ice,
poem, partly to help his lines alliterate, and perhaps partly as an attempt at characterization. in addition to "speardanes," he calls them "ring-danes" and "bright-danes," as well as "south-," "east-," and "west-danes."
t traces the subsequent line of dan1;:ings, descended from scyld: first his
8. scop's sweet song. the scop (skop) was the tribe's storyteller, chanting his tales to the sound of the harp.
as they traced the track of the cursed
he held himself at a safer distance
less vengeance. they are articulate and usually
o suffered so sorely for need of men.
showed sea-cliffs shining, towering hills
a leader noble, ecgtheowl4 his name! . . .
200 that among the scyldings some secret
e story already and, as the poet says, the
as the troop in their war-gear tramped to the
the sea-weary sailors set down their shields,
their stout spears stood in a stack together
who led t\us troop to the land of the danes."
say that his hand-grip has thirty men's
then to the door went the well-known
since i come thus faring from far-off lands335 that i may alone wit!, my loyal earls,
spurns all weapons; and i too scornmay hygelac's heart have joy of ilie deed340 to bear my sword, or sheltering shield,
while the scop's sweet singing was heard in
the stronger! . . .
430 the grisly sea-beasts again and again
retainers, . . .
wine-hall. . . .
then through the shades of enshrouding
hallthough one was watching-full well they
under clouded heavens he held his way
_5 the hardy hero, hygelac's kinsman,
600 till the time when the swelter and surge of
howling his hideous hymn of pain,
to thrust to the heart, that the sharpest
when morning came, as they tell the tale,
folk-leaders faring from far and near
each true to the other in ties of peace.
wine-cheered warriors who do my will."
790 then she went to her seat. . . .
their stout spears stood in a stack together.
use short quotations from the text to illustrate
warigea5, wulf-hleoj,u, windige messas,
hart that roams the heath . . . " now its meaning may be clearer, but the translation doesn't
whose translation you turn to, the fire is "beneath" (spaeth), "in" (kennedy and alexander), or "on" (crossley-holland) the water.
torrents . . . "
cliffs, wolf-dens where water pours
. . . these two live
790 • • • at the fairest of feasts
in evil waters and icy streams. . . .
one of the warriors she swiftly seized,
feud. . . . ,
not yet have you tempted those terrible
mid the trampling tread of a troop of
through murky moorland making her way
hygelac. . . . " \
awaited no answer, but turned to the task,
hrothgar's herald here is unferth, now reconciled to
1000 nor could she tear through the tempered
100s many a sea-beast, strange sea-monsters,
often of old with ease it had suffered
with broad bright blade, to avenge her son,
with upraised weapon he turned to the
then the tried retainers, who there with
in iron icicles, wonder of wonders,
nos from the stalwart hero his helmet and byrny
145 for you and your nobles; nor need you dread
beloved beowulf, best of warriors, ~7· avoid such evil and seek the good,
sickness or sword shall strip you of might,
to speech so sage from a man so young.
wisdom of word! . . .
soften and waste away/in iroh icicles . . . . "
1. " . . . from the east came the sun,/bright
beacon of god . . . " (lines 438-439). what is
lie straining in struggle for life . . . " (lines
sat by the side of the king himself, . . .
bade tell the tale of his friendly favor.
he had held his watch o'er the wealth of the
to seize that treasure! the stalwart king,
the treasure," . . .
1540 than heart had hoped. for the first time
welled in the breast of one of the band.
his name was wiglaf, weohstan's son,
1570 his linden shield and his ancient sword. . . .
and dauntless daring, defend your life
a third time then the terrible scather,
1615 as they tell the tale, in the king's sore need
bowls, and, above all, nineteen pieces of magnificently wrought gold jewelry set with thousands of elaborately cut garnets-these objects
next world-it is thought that the burial must
"ho then generously presented them to the
1655 kept well what was mine, courted no
then weohstan's son, as they tell the tale,
greatest of wonders, woven with skill,
1685 as i've heard the tale, the hero unaided
from the hoard of his heart and, aged and
1,00 i give my thanks to the lord of all,
not long was it then till the laggards in
had failed: . . .
then wiglaf bade tell the tidings of battle
"our leader lies low, the lord of the weders,
corpses.,, . . .
hqften for one man many must sorrow
and an aged woman with upbound jocks
